At the moment the contribution to GloGEM is restricted to **VAW-GL** members, we are working on making it available for everyone.
If you are a **VAW-GL** member, you can contribute following these guidelines.

## Cite GloGEM
If you want to refer to GloGEM in your publications or presentations, please refer to:

**_Huss, M. and Hock, R.: A new model for global glacier change and sea-level rise. Frontiers in Earth Science, 3, 5, https://www.doi.org/10.3389/feart.2015.00054, 2015_**

## Main model code
The main branch on GitHub contains the actual running version of the GloGEM code and is supervised by Dr. Matthias Huss. The repository can be found here:

**_https://github.com/sdrocer/GloGEM.git_**

## How to contribute
All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements and ideas are welcome! The repository of GloGEM is still in an early phase, so most things can be enhanced/corrected/ameliorated by anyone.

The code is hosted on GitHub. To contribute you will need to sign up for a [free GitHub account](https://github.com/signup/free) and get yourself familiar with working with git!

GitHub has instructions for installing git, setting up your SSH key, and configuring git. All these steps need to be completed before you can work seamlessly between your local repository and GitHub. We refer to our page describing the different steps required in [our GitHub workflow page](https://github.com/sdrocer/GloGEM/wiki/Git-workflow). 

For the general usage of Git you can also see some information on [our GitHub workflow page](https://github.com/sdrocer/GloGEM/wiki/Git-workflow).

### General rules
If you want to contribute to GloGEM, please follow these rules: 
* Make a new branch for your development.
* Naming: the branch should be **named by the development** you are working on **not with your name**. Name the discussion channel on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/AgaaJA7z) the exact same way as your branch! The name should be as short as possible but still describe the development as detailed as possible (example: "snow_calibration", or "firnicetemp").
* On the GitHub repository make an issue in the project tracking list, so that everyone knows that this development is in progress. 
* Make sure to regularly synchronize your branch with the main `git push`, especially when you know that changes have been made there. 
* Make sure to test your development (no matter how small or big your change in the code is) with our testing scheme. 
* Once you have tested it, you can create a pull request to merge your branch with the main branch `git push`. Create a Pull Request (PR) to the main branch using the GitHub UI and ask a teammate (GloGEM core group member) to review your changes. After the review is complete, merge the branch in the UI with main.
* Make sure to document your new development in the doc of this repository. 


### Creating a branch
You want your master branch to reflect only production-ready code, so create a feature branch for making your changes. For example:
```
$ git checkout -b <new_branch>
```
This changes your working directory to the <new_branch>. Try to keep any changes in this branch specific to one feature. You can have many <new_branch> and switch in between them using the git checkout command.

To update this branch, you need to retrieve the changes from the master branch:
```
$ git fetch upstream
$ git rebase upstream/master
```
This will replay your commits on top of the latest glogem git master. If this leads to merge conflicts, you must resolve these before submitting your pull request. If you have uncommitted changes, you will need to stash them prior to updating. This will effectively store your changes and they can be reapplied after updating.

### Delete your merged branch
Once your feature/development branch is accepted into upstream, you’ll probably want to get rid of the branch. First, merge upstream master into your branch so git knows it is safe to delete your branch:
```
$ git fetch upstream
$ git checkout master
$ git merge upstream/master
$ git branch -d <new_branche>
```

The branch will still exist on GitHub, so to delete it there too:
```
$ git push origin --delete <new_branche>
```

# Core GloGEM Developer Meeting
To keep updated on the ongoing developments and to keep improving the documentation of GloGEM with the goal to make it fully publicly available, we meet once a month **on the last Tuesday of the month** (to be discussed) at **4 pm for 30-60 minutes**. 

Please ask AVDE to be included in the GloGEM-Development Calendar if you want to join the meetings. A few days before the meeting one of us will send out the agenda. If new to do issues were discussed in the meeting, make sure to update the project overview!

## Timing of the meetings: 
* every last Tuesday of the month
* 4-5 pm 
## The General Agenda of the meetings:
* Update on ongoing developments
* Update the future to do list
* Assign issues of the to do list 
## Protocol
* For every meeting a markdown file will be created to protocol the outcome of the meeting
 

## Protocol template
* The file should be called yy_mm_glogem_dev_meeting.md

**Template: **

Protocol GloGEM developer meeting: dd.mm.yy

Participants: xxxx

Update on ongoing developments: 
* xxx
* xxx
* xxx

What was added to the future to do list: 
* xxx
* xxx
* xxx

Assigned to do's: 
* xxx
* xxx
* xxx

Other notes: 
* xxx
* xxx
* xxx

# Git workflow
 
## Get a local copy of the repository

This step creates a local copy of the repository in the folder where you are. 
```
$ git clone https://github.com/sdrocer/GloGEM.git
```
## Set the settings correct to contribute and be able to push from any machine

This step gives you the permission to push changes to Github. 

### Option 1 
```
$ git config --global credential.helper store
$ git config --global user.name "[user name from GitHub]"
$ git config --global user.email "[email-adress from GitHub]"
```
- Go to your GitHub account: [Personal Access Token Page](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
- Click "Generate new token".
- Select the scopes your token needs (e.g., repo for repository access).
- Save the token securely (you won't see it again after creation
```
$ git config --global user.password "[token created in the above workflow]"
```

### Option 2
On your machine, set up a private and public ssh key by [following the instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) specific to your operating system.

Under your user settings on the GitHub webpage, create a new SSH key and add the content of the public SSH key you generated on your machine.  

Clone the Git repository using SSH link (instead of HTTPS)

## Editing code

- Change the code
- 

## Create a branch for your work

Get an overview of the changes you made.
```
$ git status
```
Create the branch in a specific directory
```
$ cd <path_to_repository>
$ git checkout -b <branch_name> 
```

### Configure the location of the branch to be visible in the terminal automatically
```
$ XXX
```
List all the different branches
```
$ git branch -r
```
Crank away and work! When it is time to commit some changes.
```
$ git add path/to/your/file.ext  
$ git commit -m "commit message"
$ git push origin <branch_name>  
``` 
Create a Pull Request (PR) to the main branch using the GitHub UI and ask a teammate to review your changes. After the review is complete, merge the branch in the UI with main. A good practice is to also delete the branch after the merge is complete in the GitHub UI.

## Pull down the merged PR to your local main
```
$ git checkout main
$ git pull
```
### Delete the local branch
```
$ git branch -d <branch_name>
```
## Rinse and repeat
Repeat the above steps from creating a branch, pushing to master, making a PR, pulling down to your local master, and deleting the branch for every chunk of work your are planning to do.

## More infos on working with git

If you want to get more information on how to work with git, check out this [tutorial](https://github.com/ICESAT-2HackWeek/intro-jupyter-git/blob/master/03-Git-Tutorial.ipynb) by Fernando Perez (UC Berkeley)

